Predictors of physical functioning in postoperative brain tumor patients.

Tankumpuan T1, Utriyaprasit K, Chayaput P, Itthimathin P.
Author information
1
Thitipong Tankumpuan, MNS, is a Full-Time Instuctor, Faculty of Nursing, Department of Surgical Nursing, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. Questions or comments about this article may be directed to Ketsarin Utriyaprasit, PhD, at ketsarin.utr@mahidol.ac.th. She is an Associate Professor, Faculty of Nursing, Department of Surgical Nursing, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. Prangtip Chayaput, PhD, is an Assistant Professor, Faculty of Nursing, Department of Surgical Nursing, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. Parunut Itthimathin, MD MSc (Neuro Surgery), is a Neurosurgical Surgeon, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Surgery, Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
Abstract
A cross-sectional predictive design was used to study the relationships among recovery symptoms, mood state, and physical functioning and to identify predictors of physical functioning in patients who underwent surgery for brain tumor at the first follow-up visit (2 weeks) after hospital discharge. The sample included 88 patients who were 18 years or older, had full level of consciousness, and underwent first-time surgery for brain tumor without other adjuvant treatments from a tertiary hospital in Bangkok, Thailand. Descriptive statistics, Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient, and multiple regression were used for data analysis. The results revealed that most participants were women (75%) with an average age of 45.18 ± 11.49 years, having benign brain tumors (91%) and pathological results as meningioma (48.9%). The most common recovery symptoms were pain (mean = 3.2, SD = 2.6) and sleep disturbance (mean = 3.1, SD = 3.0). As for mood state, the problem of confusion was found the most (mean = 4.6, SD = 2.7). The physical functioning problem found the most was work aspect (mean = 66.3, SD = 13.3). Recovery symptoms had positive relationships with physical functioning and mood state (r = .406, .716; p < .01), respectively. At the same time, mood state had positive relationships with physical functioning (r = .288, p < .01). Recovery symptoms, total mood disturbance, fatigue, and vigor were statistically significant predictors of physical functioning and could explain variance of postoperative physical functioning in these patients at 2 weeks after discharge by 35%. Total mood disturbance was the strongest predictor of physical functioning followed by vigor, fatigue, and recovery symptom, respectively. Interventions to improve physical functioning in postoperative brain tumor patients during home recovery should account for not only recovery symptom management but also mood state.
